Benchmark server for transmembrane helix predictions
====================================================

This software is for a benchmark server that uses recent high resolution protein structural data to provide a comprehensive assessment of the accuracy of existing membrane helix prediction methods. The server further allows a user to compare uploaded predictions generated by novel methods, permitting the comparison of these novel methods against all existing methods compared by the server. Benchmark metrics include sensitivity and specificity of predictions for membrane helix location and orientation, and many others. The server allows for customised evaluations such as assessing prediction method performances for specific helical membrane protein subtypes.

This software is written in Perl and runs on a web server. It can also be run as a standalone program from the command line without a web server.

The code directory contains the programs, images, and data needed to run the program in a web server or as a standalone program. The latest version is benchmark2.pl and benchmark2.html.  

The scripts directory contains the scripts that were used (run once) to create the reference data. The reference data are the transmembrane helix predictions of the multiple prediction softwares benchmarked by this benchmark server software.  

### Citation

A benchmark server using high resolution protein structure data, and benchmark results for membrane helix predictions.
Rath EM, Tessier D, Campbell AA, Lee HC, Werner T, Salam NK, Lee LK, Church WB.
BMC Bioinformatics. 2013 Mar 27;14:111. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-14-111.
PMID: [23530628](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23530628) PMCID: PMC3620685 DOI: [10.1186/1471-2105-14-111](https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2105-14-111)



